An Abundance Manifesto, Abridged, v0.1.0

What you're about to read is subversive as fuck.

Our current society disenfranchises many. People who are thoughtful towards a kinder culture are unappreciated by society. These are Good People, as most of us are, we only want What's Best. On a fundamental level, most of us know what this means. That said, this then becomes tainted and warped by ideology. Scarcity-thinking, the idea that we do not have enough, exceptionalism, the idea that we are special and only we get the best-- and only if we work hard enough-- in addition to old-school commodity-fetishism, could perhaps be said to be society's means of making us care about things that don't necessarily have inherent value. Capitalism has means and ways of convincing us of all such lies.

Capitalism is also terrible at quantifying values that cannot be commoditized directly. Suffering, extinction, harm... Often times these are written off with a zero value in the logbook of industry. It's what makes many harmful industries profitable. If the true cost were amortized over the generations it would take to pay for it, we would not do the things we do in the way we do them. our system is built upon extravagant lies to convince ourselves that certain things have value, when otherwise, with clear minds, we'd see they are valueless. Much of the service industry is this way. Manufacturing is done incorrectly, as well. Efficiency is not the goal. Abundance for everyone without doing harm. That is the real goal.

Sustainability is the first step towards abundance. What do I mean by abundance? It's certainly an outlook on life, (a privileged one, to be sure), but it's also an outlook on the world, and humanity. It's freeing ourselves of the lie of exceptionalism, of realizing that we can, indeed, through our intellect and innate generosity as an intelligent species, provide for every member our species and others, all the the things they need to live full and happy lives, as everyone cares to define that, without doing harm.

But first, if we're to make any progress, one must first eschew any notions of nationalism. It's also been called "patriotism", which is steeped in Amero-centralism. The nation-state is an outdated model, is incredibly territorial and wasteful. It will ultimately become quaint and vestigial, but for now, one can pay taxes and abide by local laws, surely. However, much of what we could do as private citizens, corporations are permitted to do so as well.

Centralization is the enemy. It is a massive wealth-concentration mechanism for the wealthy. It's sold to us under the guise of efficiency from mass production, automation, and lowered expense. I posit that if we re-define the term "efficiency" from an abundance perspective, instead of a capitalist perspective, we will realize that centralized manufacturing is actually incredibly wasteful and harmful.

Ultimately, we possess the means to wrest control from harmful and wasteful capitalist practices. We have all the tools necessary to do so, but we need to shed capitalist thinking and assumptions, and scarcity-based fears and boundaries, simply by tackling the non-obvious and shaking our foundations.

Makers can produce beyond cottage industry. Early distributed communities can arise, until local ones can flourish. Greenhouses, homes, technology of various kinds, if we think hard enough, we might just be able to develop abundant varieties, especially from the excesses and wastefulness of our capitalist insanity.
